Your customers are outside of your organization,
but they're essential to your business.
And not just because they buy the products
or services you sell.
When you work within an organization, day in and day out,
seeing opportunities for improvement can be challenging.
But a customer who is on the outside
can clearly see what's working and what's not.
Their perspective can help you get better
if you care enough to ask for their feedback.
So how can you start soliciting feedback?
And once you hear from customers, how do you respond?
Start developing your solicitation methods
by considering your customers first.
What approach fits with your audience?
Use this frame of reference
to inform your strategy development.
In general, people respond to a request for feedback
when it's personal.
For example, if you speak with customers regularly,
you can ask for feedback directly.
Customers who prefer to correspond via email
or chat will probably respond more favorably
to feedback requests they receive through those channels.
Regardless of how you solicit it,
the choice to provide feedback should also be low pressure
for your customers, make it an option not a requirement.
Finally, customers should know that their feedback
is purposeful.
They're more likely to provide comments
if they know they'll be making a difference.
Make it clear that their opinion matters to your business.
After considering your customer's expectations,
choose what questions you'll ask
based on the information you're seeking.
For example, if you're aiming to improve your product,
you could ask customers how it's impacted their lives.
Or if you'd like to evaluate your marketing plan,
you could ask how customers found your business.
Once you have your questions,
choose solicitation methods that are appropriate
for your audience.
From email surveys to website pop-ups,
to good old fashioned phone calls,
you have many options to choose from.
Select one or a few methods that best fit your customers
and your questions.
As feedback begins to come in,
you'll notice positive comments, negative comments
and all sorts of comments in between.
Creating unique responses to these comments
will show your customers
that you genuinely value their opinion.
While a generic response won't cover
all the different feedback you might receive,
you can follow some general tips, first, express gratitude.
No matter what a comment says, a customer took time
out of their day to share their opinion with you.
Show them you appreciate the gesture.
Next, remember that feedback is tied to marketing.
Always respond knowing that other people might read
or hear about your responses.
Also, practice empathy.
You may feel emotional after hearing feedback,
especially if it's negative and that's understandable,
but think about feedback as an opportunity to learn
and improve.
One way to practice empathy is to listen actively,
clarify the root of the problem
and present yourself as an ally, not an enemy.
You may find that your most significant improvements
result from negative feedback.
Next, be curious.
Ask questions to clarify what the customer means.
This is especially important for vague or neutral feedback.
When you get a customer to be more specific,
you gain more information.
You can also consider offering more.
A dissatisfied customer is usually seeking solutions,
but you can also use this strategy with happy customers.
For example, if someone provides a glowing product review,
you could suggest other products they might enjoy
or offer a discount on a future purchase.
Finally, make sure you pass feedback along to others
who need to hear it.
These individuals might even help you develop your responses
to customers.
While not always easy to hear,
feedback is crucial to growing your business.
That's because customers see things that can allude you
as you go about your daily business.
So invite them into your process.
As your customers share their comments,
show them that you genuinely care about their feedback
by providing personalized responses.
You'll get valuable ideas and form powerful connections
in the process.